# Novelty Characterization Using Hierarchical Clustering


An unsupervised learning method for novelty detection and characterization based on qualitative spatial relations.

## Requirements

Python 3.6+

## Run the pipeline in sequence:

- **GetQSRRelations.py**: Generate 4 QSR features to present the state transition, including RCC, QDC, STAR-4, and QTC.
- **Existence.py**: Generate one additional existence feature.
- **Read_Data_consequence.py**: Filter state transitions that at least one feature has changed.
- **Data_preprocessing.py**: Concatenate state traisitions and convert them into clustering-welcomed format.
- **Hierarchical_clustering.py**: Perform hierarchical clustering on the state transitions.

## Citing this Work

If you use this method in your research, please cite:

Paper is now under review of KR2021 conference.


# Automatic Action Model Acquisition From Narrative Texts


Action models, which take the form of precondition/effect axioms, enable AI agents to reason about the causal and motivating connections between actions. Action model acquisition has been identified as a bottleneck in the applications of planning technology, particularly in narrative planning applications due to the scale of the model required. Acquiring action models from narrative text in an automatic way is necessary but challenging because of the characteristics of such texts. In this paper, we explore the automatic action model acquisition from large-scale narrative texts. We propose a novel pipeline that first extracts structured events from texts, and then creates planning-language-style action models from the events based on predictions of commonsense event relations and textual contradiction and similarity in an unsupervised manner. Experiments show that: our pipeline can generate action models that are as good as or better than examples from the literature, which are hand-crafted or generated by partially or fully automated methods; and that action sequences generated from our action models can guide text generation models to output controllable and coherent stories.

## Requirements

Python 3.6+

Python Packages:
StanfordCoreNLP tookit
pandas
pickle
nltk
spacy
allennlp
torch
transformers
networkx
pycorenlp

## Data
MoviePlot: Download from https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~ark/personas/
Goodnews: Acquire from https://github.com/furkanbiten/GoodNews
ATOMIC-2020: https://allenai.org/data/atomic-2020
## Run the pipeline in sequence:
- **event_extraction.py**: Get event occurrences from text. Data type should be specified: movieplot or goodnews.
- **POS_DEP_tagging.py**: POS tagging and dependency parsing via StandofordcoreNLP toolkit.
- **phrasal_verb.py**: Detect phrasal verbs if exist.
- **subevent_detect.py**: Detect argument events and conditional events from the event occurrences.
- **pipeline_event_representation_acquire.py**: Run this pipeline equals to run all the above files one by one as a pipeline.
- **finetune_COMET_BM.py**: Finetune the COMET pretrained model to acquire COMET_BM.

## Citing this Work

If you use this method in your research, please cite:

Paper is now under review of IJCAI2023 conference.
